The Joe Rogan experience. It just changes. And I also know that I don't really
know that much and it's different every time anyway, but some,
I really like when you have a loose concept of what you're doing,
there's certain parts that aren't gonna change much. And the rest you discover.
So the first iron man, I mean, John and I and the,
and the writers or John and I, we, we were just would write you write a line,
I'll write a line. And then we would,
we were literally watching the puppies be born as we did it,
frustrating for people who not Gwyneth,
cuz she can look at a piece of paper and then go, okay, I get it.
And she's got it all memorized. She's amazing, but okay.
What's for the highest good.
Sometimes it's very self-indulgent to come in and like, you know,
hand out new pages or say, oh, I'm not saying that. So feed me that,
you know what I mean? You need an environment of respect, but I, I like,
I like discovering things.
How much of acting is managing the,
those weird relationships that you have with these other people that you're
acting with? Like you,
you've made some references to like people changing other people's lines and not
being prepared. I got outta acting for that. Very re uh, this,
that was the thing that I, I went from a world of standup comedy,
which are just a bunch of crazy people to actors,
which are a bunch of crazy people, but in a different way. Yep.
And the managing all the different characters and all the different
personalities. How hard is that?
That seems like that could really get in the way.
Well, yeah, sure can. And it's like a thumbprint, every time you're on a,
a new project, it's a completely different, you know,
finger a print. You, you never know what you're gonna get.
And sometimes projects seem blessed and sometimes you could say they're
cursed. But again, my, uh, Susan Downey,
Esquire was talking about this yesterday. She goes,
it's the only thing you can't overcome as a creative producer on a big movie or
anything is in, in principle, no matter what happens, you can fix it. Uh,
we lost the light. Oh the thunder. The weather came in. Okay. He got sick.
Oh she's oh, she's pregnant. Okay, great. Uh, change the costume.
You can't overcome personalities.
Yeah. The relationships that people have with each other,
do you meet up before you commit to a role? Do you ever say like, I,
I wanna meet captain America and find out what the that guyss really like?
<laugh> like, by the way.
Um, <laugh> I mean, I, I love that you think I had to have the authority.
Did you cast this guy or wait, let me get a taste of him. Tell you.
Stick around. No, I just say saying' really,
I'm really interested in doing that,
but can we all have a group dinner or something like that? Yeah.
Can I meet these guys? Find out someone.
Mo is always let's mind meld. Let's get together. Let's work weekends.
Let's spend time together cuz you can't replace that
familiarity, but so you have to try to build it.
And sometimes it happens very naturally.
Like I adore Chris Evans. I can't even tell you why he's a,
he is a Boston guy. He's technically an such a brilliant actor,
but he also doesn't take himself seriously. He's flaky.
But he's the first guy you would want to have your back if something went down
he's and, and,
and yet we're different enough where I feel you like by being who we are and
then both having those characters, we were able to, I think, uh, I thought,
I thought civil war was a special moment in the,
in the arc of the Marvel films about turning one against the other and what it
meant. And uh, and uh,
so sometimes you just get lucky as a matter of a whole Marvel universe,
possibly without exception just happens to be a really well,
uh, uh, what do you call that when you, uh, uh,
when you put together something curated group of souls? Mm.
Well, it's interesting because people take superhero movies seriously.
Now,
like now superhero movies are films that happen to be about superheroes.
Whereas, you know, for the longest time superhero movies were.
You know, the TV shows were kind of clunky. There were, there were campy,
you know, it was Batman with the silly pants on and Robin and
everything was bang. Boom, bang. Remember,
you'd see the big boom in front of the, the.
Screen. Absolutely. And yet who was in the first Superman? Brandon?
Yes. Right. So there was always.
A seed of an attempt to legitimize something that
was otherwise two dimensional. Yeah. Superman.
Was probably the first film that really did that. Right. And then Batman. Yeah.
And then the Batman series, but again, how many Batmans have there been?
Right. I'm I, I wanna see what Pattenson does.
Oh, that's right. He's gonna be Batman now. I like that guy.
We've how many Spidermans have there been that that's the most right?
Three.
Only three. Yeah. And th three hulks, right?
At least 1, 2, 3, not counting the TV show. Yeah.
Counting the TV show four counting.
The TV show. Oh, you're right. Eric bannana you're right? Yeah. Norton. Yep.
Mark, mark. Ruffo R who I think is he's my favorite. Ah.
He was just born for it. Yeah.
It's perfect. You believe.
Him? Yeah. And again, his whole thing was what's. My action is like,
you know what? I, I got an anger problem.
How do you guys manage this giant CGI thing?
Like how does that work? Like when you're on the set,
like that seems like one of the weirdest parts about acting in some of those
Avenger films. Yeah. Is how much of it actually digital.
Yeah. You just kind of get used to it. Um, uh,
all digress. I did a movie with, uh, Richard linklatter called, uh,
a scanner darkly and it was, rotoscoped so great movie. I love that movie.
Love him. And, um, and Keano and I, and Woody and Winona,
and it was this cool thing. And we would shoot these scenes and he would say,
oh, you can just leave your, uh, your body mic on the outside. Cuz we're,
justpainting the whole thing.
So that rodoscoping is a great metaphor for essentially what
Marvel movies became when sometimes you would even go in,
I'm supposed to come in and like, you know,
throw something and it was off camera. Uh, but everything else was great. Oh,
we'll just move your arm later and you go, wow.
So you never want to rest on your laurels and say, you know,
but after a certain while I was like, why am I wearing this,
this, uh, this football suit?
Just put some dots on my shoulders so I can move more freely. And they be like,
all right, I go to, honestly, what are you really using this,
all this stuff I'm wearing for, they go for reference. I go, great.
So I'll wear it for one take and then I'll take it off and then I'll relax a
little bit. But then other people would be like, or I bet you'd be like,
I'm stuck in this thing, Dominic, you know, it was paid purple.
So everybody got to join in on the joys and the misies
of the, uh, of the, the technical challenge of doing it.
And speaking of Ruffo by the end, because he's smart Hulk.
He literally, they were just making him big wherever he was. And they'd put a,
a little, you know, a, uh,
a piece of PVC with a big Hulk head up about five feet over where his head was.
And he was just there in a green suit.
So in a tracking suit with like his package out, you know, and he'd be like,
let me just at least tie like a little Sorong around was, come on guys,
you know, whatever, you know.
And so I think mark went about out as far out into the Ioni
sphere of, uh, of CG as you can.
How I didn't get the whole smart hu smart Hulk thing. I didn't get how they,
how he figured that out. It wasn't really, yeah.
Like Hulk is supposed to be Hulk, right? It's supposed to be the altar.
It's like one you control. One is one is the, the genius scientist. Exactly.
And one is the beast.
But after so many times, and again, this is the genius of the people who, who,
who break and shape stories over there. Figging his team as they go, oh,
he's Hulk. And then he's not Hulk. He's Hulk. It's a big battle. Oh,
he's so conflicted. What if he could meet himself in the middle? I,
and then what corner have we painted ourselves in by having him meet
himself in the middle? Cuz then you can't ever, if that doesn't work,
you can't go back to the way it was. You've done it.
Or you can go back to the way it was. So I just think that the,
the real genius of the Marvel creative team is they and the Russo brothers who
did the last few aveng infinnity Warren end game, is they go,
we love riding ourselves into a corner.
We love it because then it, it activates all of those.
How do we get out of purgatory juices? And then you get the next right idea.
Now when you guys sit down and when you first receive a script for one of these
things, uh, do they consult with you? Do they discuss this with you?
Do they just lay it out and say, this is, this is the character act. How do you,
how do you feel about this? What do you think?
Yeah. And, and by it's changed over time. Um,
I think if you're one of the folks who has their are standalone movies,
like Scarlett has black widow coming out, I think you take a, I,
would you take a, a bit of a different, uh,
tack in how much meaningful? I think the phrase,
the legal phrase for actors and studios is meaningful consultation. Uh-huh uh,
not script approval because then anybody could to hold a studio hostage,
cuz I don't approve this 30 million that you're trying to spend right now.
So your schedule's fine. When.
You say I don't approve,
I picture a bathrobe and I picture fine China and TEAC cups.
That's what I picture. I don't approve. And then just storming off.
I've had my moments too, cuz I'm so passionate about story. Um,
but again,
after more seat time with the same people and new people coming in and,
and getting a, a pretty brutal education on what kind of, uh,
process these movies require, you, you,
you just start trusting more that they're thinking on your behalf.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and also little things are easy to change.
Big things become a inconvenience to the higher. Good.
And at what point do you want to pull the Airbreak on
something where the trains, you know, already leaving the station?
Well, I would imagine it would be a fine line that they, they want the,
the actor to be comfortable with the character and they want some,
and maybe some feedback would be beneficial, but they're also, they have a path,
a vision that they've created. Yeah.
And they would like to see you somehow or another at least morph slightly to
get on this path.
Yeah. And by the way, after I had my, I second round of kids with Susan, I,
I became both artistically.
I had a bit of a Renaissance when I was doing the third iron man.
And then after that too, I was like, well, now I'm gonna do this Avengers.
And there's so many moving parts and it's so difficult just to get all these
schedules to coincide and get everyone together that I'm not gonna be like, oh,
I'm not feeling it <laugh>. So again, it's that thing.
It's a it's sometimes whether they say, uh,
faster or alone further together,
sometimes you can only think about further because you gotta get downfield.
Other times you're thinking, Hey, this is my moment to run and I need,
I need a little help and a little approval and I need a little leeway,
but that's any creative endeavor.
I would imagine when you're involved in something that's so epic when it's
actually over.
It probably almost seems surreal cuz the production is so massive.
There's so many moving pieces. There's so many special effects.
So many things that you, you have to sort of visualize while you're doing it.
And then after it's all over, you're done. And what is a,
like what, what is a big Avengers movie?
How many months are you involved in this?
Well, I mean,
it could be some part of 18 months to two year,
depending on how far out you are and then four to six months of principle
photography and then additional photography and then post.
And then I always include promotion, you know, from, uh, um,
yeah, from soup to nuts I think is the phrase soup to nuts.
Yeah. I, how does that work? That's a dual silver phrase. One of my, uh,
oh one of my great, great, uh,
friends and probably one of the greatest, uh,
big movie producers of all time. We did, um, the Sherlocks with the, him,
he did the matrix series. My misses was running his company for 10 years. Kiss,
kiss, bang, bang, which is, I think in some ways the,
the best film I've ever done wound up being a calling card. Uh,
it came out and it, it bombed and, but John Faro saw it and he said,
this guy could do an action movie.
And so that wound up being my calling card into the Marvel universe.
Okay.